So before we come to fetching the user input, let's output a post, let's output some dummy content.
Let's say we have a paragraph there, load a button and here we want to output the content the user entered.
Now for now, the user didn't enter anything,
so let's set some dummy content. For this
we need two things, we need to set some content in on add post and we need a place to store that content
in which we then can also refer to from the template. That stored the content in thing is a property,
basically a variable in a class,
you define it without the var, const or let keyword, you just add the name in the class here and the name
can be anything you like,
like for example new post.
Now I'll set this to an empty string by default and in on add post, I will override it,
we referred to it with the this keyword,
this new post and we set this equal to any content you like,
like the users, whoops, escape that, the post like that,
notice that I escaped that in-between single quotation mark with a backslash.
So now we're setting the new post value to this value whenever we click the button.
Now to output the new post, we need to go back to the html file and just as we added the listener directly
in here, we also add output or output hooks directly in the template.
We do that with a feature called string interpolation and you add or use that feature with double curly
braces, opening and closing and in between,
you refer to something which is stored inside your post create component or your component belonging
to the template
in general, that something could be a method and then you would output whatever this method returns or
it can be a property name, like new post,
so here I can just say new posts and refer to that property.
And now what you can see is that when I save this, you don't see anything because we start with an empty
string, a new post
but if I clicks save post, you see the users post here because we change that text and due to
string interpolation,
we told angular hey please output the current value of the text and also when it changes, please
output the new value in this place here in our html code.
So that is string interpretation in place and that is one important building block when it comes to
outputting content,
now let's also dive into one other way of outputting content on the screen.
Let's say we want to pre-populate the text area with some dummy starting text,
let's say we don't start with an empty string here
but with no content.
Now of course if I save this, it reloads and we have no content here until we click the button and let's
say we want to output no content in the text area too. Now in the text area, we can use string interpolation
like this, new post
and if we save that, we get no content in there too.
We could also do something different,
the text area is an input element in html and as such it has a special property we can bind to, not an
attribute, a property, html elements in the dom and in javascript are just javascript objects with
a couple of properties,
so variables belonging to that object which can read and write and one property is the value property.
Now the value property actually can't be set like this,
so if we set this to test here, you see it's empty but we have another feature in angular which allows us
to directly target properties of the underlying objects of the html elements.
We can add the property name and you of course have to know that this element has a value property
but now you do know, you can use resources like the MDN, the mozilla developer network to get complete
references of all available properties, of all available elements
but if you know that name, you can wrap it in square brackets like this and this will now directly target
the value property of the underlying object and bind the value between quotation marks to it.
Now important just as for the click listener or for string interpolation,
this value is now not normal text but actually typescript code,
so if you enter tests here, it would look for a property named test in your component. If you want to output test
as a string,
you need to wrap this in single quotation marks
and now if you save this, you see test as a starting value because we're binding to the underlying value
property
and of course you can also bind this, not to a string but to new post,
now without the single quotation marks because now we want to refer to that property in our component
class and now we see no content there too. This is important to
know, we will use a combination of string interpolation for a simple text
most of the time if we want to output it between opening and closing tags and property binding always
used directly on the elements for outputting data in our template.
Now we can output data, that's all cool but how can we now finally get that user input.
We'll do this in the next lecture.